TITLE

An Automatic Hypothesis of Electrical Lines from Range Scans and Photographs

ABSTRACT

As building information modeling (BIM) is getting more and more 
important for many stakeholders, the creation of accurate as-built BIM 
data for existing buildings is highly desired. As the acquisition of
geometric data using range scans or photogrammetry works is getting
more easily, as more products are available, there is a big focus on
extracting semantic information from the measurements. 
This extraction is not always straightforward, as the result may 
depend on conditions which are not directly observable in the measured 
data.

This work presents a method to automatically hypothesize such 
information from observable data, taking into account the semantic 
and geometric constraints of the according domain. 
The results are part of the project DURAARK: durable architectural 
knowledge, which concerns with the enrichment of digital building 
models with semantic and geometric data, as well as the preservation 
of 3D models for future reuse.

The presented method utilizes scanned (as-built) BIM data of indoor 
spaces and provides a hypothesis of possible electrical lines. 
The system utilizes the fact that there are often legal guidelines or 
norms that govern the placement of such lines, especially for public 
buildings. This prior knowledge is encoded in a 2D shape grammar that 
produces probable installation zones for a given wall configuration. 
Observable endpoints (sockets and switches) are detected using 
computer vision methods. The installation zones and endpoints are 
combined in a graph that represents all likely paths the cables 
could take. From this graph, a subgraph is extracted 
that corresponds to shortest connection of all endpoints, 
which corresponds to the most probable wiring hypothesis.

The method can be used to present a probable wiring for as built BIM,
or for suggesting cable ducts for a building reorganisation or while
planning a new building.

KEYWORDS



AUTHOR INFORMATION

Ulrich Krispel 
ulrich.krispel@vc.fraunhofer.at 
Austria
Fraunhofer Austria Research GmbH
http://www.fraunhofer.at

Martin Hecher
martin.hecher@vc.fraunhofer.at
Austria
Fraunhofer Austria Research GmbH
http://www.fraunhofer.at

Martin Tamke
martin.tamke@kadk.dk
Denmark
Centre for Information Technology and Architecture
http://cita.karch.dk
